Why have hope? That question never crossed my mind as an eleven-year-old, my days were simply full of it. I woke up every morning hoping Dad would make pancakes for breakfast or I could pick the music on the way to school. These innocent wishes reflected the worries my childhood, but, like all things do, they changed. I clearly remember writing on a Christmas gift bag that cheerily announced, “Ho Ho Ho” across the front to instead read “Hope Hope Hope” with the simple addition of two letters. I wasn’t old enough to understand the reality of a metastatic stage four cancer diagnosis in a 73-year-old, but I had hope! I hoped for a swift and miraculous recovery. I hoped that my grandmother would have the chance to know me as more than just a silly kid. But hope wasn’t enough. As a child I assumed that there was nothing left to hope for when the focus of my grandmother’s care turned from treatment to comfort.  I believed that not only had the medicine failed my grandmother, but my “hope” had failed me. In the years following her passing, I refused to let myself have hope. I viewed it as a conscious decision to face inevitable disappointment. I was lost and confused – everyone else had hope, and for the life of me, I couldn’t figure out why. 

It wasn’t until I stepped into the world of medicine that I would truly be able to answer that question.

I perhaps learned the most about myself and the kind of physician I want to be while working as an overnight Certified Nursing Assistant in a long-term care facility. I came to realize that care isn’t just about procedures and prescriptions; care for the whole person is also about presence. I began each night shift armed with tips from the afternoon CNA to ensure a smooth night for the thirteen residents under my care. One of my residents, Bessie, had strict instructions for me, “Don’t wake me up.” So, when her call light went off at two a.m. I was quickly concerned. I found Bessie sitting in her recliner, lamp on, with the simple question of, “Do you have a moment to talk?” Although I was pressed for time, I stayed, and for thirty minutes she shared stories of her children, their childhood memories, and the constant ache she felt from their absence. I could not cure her loneliness, but I could offer her my presence. In those quiet moments, I saw how care can take the form of human connection or simply the sense that you still matter. Bessie found hope not in miraculous cures, but in the little things.

Times like those throughout my time at the long-term care facility helped me realize hope in medicine isn’t always tied to recovery; it can be rooted in a desire for connection and a better tomorrow.

Shadowing physicians across various specialties gave me the opportunity to watch mesmerizing procedures and observe the art of patient care. It also showed me that the most impactful moments in medicine are often not the procedures themselves but in the conversations that surround them. I had the chance to shadow a general surgeon while he oversaw the resident clinic. A moment I’ll never forget is when we entered the room of a 94-year-old Navy veteran and his 3 children. Dr. Wambach was delivering the news that the mass in his colon was cancer, it was terminal, and the treatment options were limited. To be blunt, he was responsible for delivering a death sentence. Yet, I listened as Dr. Wambach spoke with empathy and sincerity. In one of the hardest moments of this family’s life, he offered them clarity and comfort and worked with them to determine the next steps.

He embodied the kind of physician I aspire to become, someone who doesn’t just deliver facts, but walks with their patients through every twist and turn. My time shadowing taught me that patients don’t just look to their doctors for answers, they look to them for reassurance, for honesty, for hope.

 recently saw the importance of hope play out in my own health. My diagnosis of celiac disease left me feeling overwhelmed and confused. Suddenly, something as simple as eating became a source of anxiety and isolation. I was frustrated with how little control I had over my body and the rules that now dictated my life. In time I eventually I found hope not in a cure, but in the peace of letting go of what is out of my control. By learning about nutrition and connecting with others who share my condition I was able to slowly make peace with my new normal.

This experience gave me a slight insight into what patients may feel when their life seems to be uprooted by a diagnosis or disease and the strength it takes to adapt. 

Almost a decade later, the little girl who once saw hope as cruel deception has grown into a young woman who understands that it’s not an empty promise, it is the first step in healing. Hope isn’t always about beating the odds or finding a cure; sometimes, it’s about giving patients the support they need to face what lies ahead. I will be a physician who listens with intention, leads with empathy, and understands the importance of connection. I have come to learn that often the most powerful medicine we can provide as caregivers is time and presence. Above all, I want to be a physician who restores hope; I know how it feels to be lost without it, and how life-changing it can be to find it again.