When I first came to Creighton, my motivation to pursue medicine was narrow and ill-informed. I admired characters like Dr. House and Hawkeye Pierce who epitomized a model of medicine that, however compelling, reflected a distorted reality. While these characters’ motivations can ultimately be stripped down to mere plot contrivances, I have found that my motivations for medicine cannot be reduced to a simple anecdote or individual experience. My actions have been instantiated by a mix of ideals and experiences rooted in a sense of duty, curiosity, and moments of profound human dignity. 

As one can imagine, physician shadowing quickly disabused me of Hollywood notions of Sherlock-esque physicians treating increasingly obscure and exotic diseases. In the place of this shallow character trope, I came to admire multifaceted and complex physicians such as Dr. Groen. A short list of Dr. Groen’s many jobs would include track coach, physician, mentor, and even the track team’s bus driver, but he is more than the sum of these roles. The confluence and intersection of each of these roles meet and meld to inform the wonderful man he is, which was on display when I had the opportunity to shadow him. I had previously been treated by Dr. Groen for a stress fracture that threatened to cut my cross-country season short, and I attributed the soothing, personable, and compassionate care I experienced to our joint interest in my running abilities. However, while shadowing Dr. Groen, I saw that the compassionate and empathetic rapport that he established with patients – whether suffering from ingrown toenails or a severe foot deformity- demonstrated that my visit was in no way special.

But it wasn’t until a quiet almost unremarkable moment that I witnessed the depth of his care. At the end of each visit, Dr. Groen knelt to tie the shoes of each patient in an acknowledgment of shared human vulnerability and dignity. In this act, I saw the purest expression of Christian service and genuine vocation. This image of Dr. Groen on his knees tying a patient’s shoes following their examination is indistinguishable in my mind from Christ washing the feet of his disciples. That single act embodied complex and values that cannot be reduced to stemming from any individual role; they must be understood as the unity of motivations under a shared vocation. 

This image of Dr. Groen and the ideals he embodies have stayed with me. Most days when I roll out of bed, I operate under a sense of obligation to follow in the footsteps of role models like Dr. Groen who project meaningful and compassionate service. This obligation manifests in my long-standing conviction to cultivate personal academic and social skills for the benefit of others. This sense of duty has been sufficient to motivate me to pursue challenging biochemical and philosophical coursework that serves to refine my talents and critical thinking abilities.

However, despite Kant, obligation isn’t always sufficient to motivate or pull me out of disillusionment. In fact, I am reminded of times volunteering and shadowing at the Kountze Memorial Healing Gift Free Clinic that idealistic convictions encountered harsh realities. It is hard to maintain an intellectual sense of purpose while struggling to properly listen to an elderly woman’s heart through the swaths of clothing that she wears due to her landlord turning off her heating. A different motivation is necessary in such situations. In the face of tangible inequality and factors beyond clinical control, one must only see the vulnerability of another human as compelling to find the motivation to care and serve.

It was this same motivation that drew me to serve on Spring Service and Justice trips through the Schlegel Center for Service and Justice. A drive to confront inequality led me to St. Anthony New Mexico where I learned about immigration reform and volunteered to help women study for their citizenship tests. And in Montgomery Alabama, the legacy of civil rights injustices was made concrete as I crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge a mere 60 years after Bloody Sunday. Additionally, the somber past stood in stark contrast to the joy of teaching and playing with 1st and 2nd graders at Resurrection Catholic School.

In sum, these service opportunities and the connections that they bring display not only past and present inequity but also the triumphs of disadvantaged individuals despite these impediments. 

Furthermore, it was not empathy that led me to pursue biochemical research to characterize bacterial peptide importers. While the plight of antibiotic-resistant bacteria informs my purpose for developing novel therapeutics in our research, a deep-seated desire to express scientific curiosity and contribute to the collective intellectual discourse allowed me to persevere in the face of setbacks and even failure.

Ultimately, it might be disappointing that there isn’t a single experience that crystalized my motivation to pursue medicine, but I have learned through time spent shadowing, studying, researching, and volunteering that it is only through medicine, that my beliefs and values can be united into a calling and meaningful vocation.