A childhood of baseball practices and judo tournaments often ended with me sitting in the uncomfortable chairs of the hospital waiting room as I agonized over my newest injury. But few were as painful as the line drive to the face that caused throbbing pain, a struggle to see, and anxiety of permanent damage. This was the first serious injury I ever received, so I had no idea what to expect. Would I need to stay in the hospital? Would I need surgery? These terrifying thoughts raced through my head as I shook with fear. But that fear soon dissipated after talking to the physician who fortuitously introduced me to the path I would rigorously work towards. Rather than jumping straight to the problem, he entered the room with a smile and quipped that I must have a hard head. The way he joked with me brought a smile to my face, and before I knew it, the pain above my eye took a backseat to my laughter. Most importantly, he listened to my fears, and addressed them, telling me an injury like this had no chance of keeping me down. The time he took to check on me and his approach to consoling a sobbing child was my first exposure to the values of a good physician. This unplanned encounter sparked my drive to become a physician who strives for patients to live unimpeded lives by treating their humanity and finding ways to meet them where they are. 

Growing up in the Hawaiian culture, community was a huge part of my identity. As a child, I was constantly surrounded by aunties and uncles who taught me the importance of family. It was second nature to treat neighbors, classmates, and even strangers with the same kindness and respect I would show family. From carrying aunties’ bags from the car to our tent on the beach; to bringing my mom’s pound cake to my neighbor's house as thanks for the fish he gave us; to just holding the door open for the mother struggling to push her kid’s stroller through the door at Ross. Living in Hawaii has taught me how to create tight relationships with the people around me, showing me a sense of unity that taught me how to connect with others.

My desire to serve my community led to me participating in the Hawaii Pacific Health Career Summer Internship. During the internship, I was exposed to different departments in the healthcare setting. Beyond the procedural aspect of the hospital, staff mentioned how Hawaii had a physician shortage. It became evident to me, observing the presence of traveling staff, hired to keep up with patient demand. Intrigued by this phenomenon, I researched the topic, only to find the situation is predicted to worsen. Coupled with the high cost of living and cultural diversity, healthcare in Hawaii has become largely inaccessible. With diseases such as diabetes and heart failure ravaging these populations, delays in care are devastating. A visit to a physician can be the difference between hearing the need to change your diet and the need to amputate your hand. My community deserves better, and I plan to push for a world where we are not controlled by these hardships.

Inspired, I applied for an internship at the University of Hawaii Cancer Center. Aside from pipetting into tiny tubes, I measured the HbA1c of participants. The demoralizing feeling as I circled “diabetic” on the participant's form, thinking about the dreaded news I needed to deliver stays with me until this day. Coming from a family of diabetics, I have seen the frustration on my dad’s face as he needed to eat at certain times to stay on track with insulin doses, or how his hands would shake if his blood sugar dropped too low. I hated the difficulties the disease imposed on my dad. Now, I faced the challenging task of telling someone that they had the same condition. It was tough, but with guidance from my lab manager, I learned to deliver the news clearly and with sensitivity, providing reassurance to participants by clearly outlining the next steps. Although participants were worried about how their quality of life would diminish, explaining how simple lifestyle changes could help mitigate the effects, and this put them at ease. By being attentive and empathetic in conversation, I was able to chisel away at the wall of uncertainty in their minds and instead, build trust between them and the research team.

From these experiences, I aim to make approaching patients feel at ease when delivering difficult news. Learning how to address chronic diseases that continue to affect my community and finding ways to implement impactful change reinforced my desire to become a physician.

I aspire to be a physician who connects with his patients. I aim to not only address their clinical concerns, such as explaining the detrimental effects of high blood sugar but build the familial connection I grew up with. Coming from a community with limited physicians, I want to be a part of the healthcare world to add just one more person working for them. By building tight-knit relationships with the community, I hope to break down the barriers between physician and patient and improve the quality of life of those who are a part of it.