The manner in which we use our hands significantly tells our story. It is the hands of a
mother that hold her newborn child right after birth. It is the hands of a pilot that steadily
land a plane, and the hands of a firefighter that reach out to fire victims in need. What are
the hands we see around us in our community? I have seen the chapped, soiled, and
freezing hands of a homeless man waiting for lunch at the community support center. The
hands are those of a dying patient, approaching their last breath, frail and weak, held
gently for the last time by loved ones; hands being held in love. The hands we see may not
be the cleanest, or simply put, the most attractive. But all hands have a history and a story
of love. I have found that my own hands are most useful when I put them at the service of
others. God has given me two hands to make a significant difference in the world around
me, and I believe that I am yet to fully satisfy this calling. I believe that offering my hands to
be ones of healing and comfort, given to others in exhaustion, is my calling that will be well
expressed through a career in medicine.

I discerned my call to medicine as I began my college career. I was raised in Southern California and have always lived there in the comfort of good weather and a tight knit family The transition into my college years sparked the question of what my career path may be, and thus where I should attend my next stage of school. I credit my transition to Creighton as one of being called to fulfill more, to do more. Even though this required me to make the unchartered move to the unfamiliar Midwest, I recognized the opportunity as not only a challenge, but one of great potential. This risk I took, this significant journey and transition into a new chapter, has only oriented me towards seeking to fulfill my mission of being an instrument of healing to others.

There have been several encounters along my educational and pre-med journey where I have directly witnessed the fragility of human life, inherently tied with its unlimited value. One of these experiences was while volunteering at St. Vincent de Paul in Omaha, where I would, along with a team of other volunteers, offer my services directly to the homeless and underserved in the community. I witnessed many  people who exist on the margins of society, carrying burdens, such as a man missing his leg with no prothesis, a man pleading to come inside because he was freezing, or a lady asking for something as simple as hand wipes, that I later realized was a luxury to her because she likely had no access to a sink to wash her hands. The exposed, chapped, and frostbitten hands of those whom I met were not just eager for a sandwich lunch, but were also in need of healing and human touch. I see these experiences as not only ones of weekly service, but also very closely relating to a career in medicine. These encounters led me to realize that practicing medicine is absolutely all about caring for the needs of those around me and being willing to care for those from all walks of society.

The experience I had doing rounds at Bergan Mercy Medical Center as a volunteer allowed me to see the different floors and hospital units, including patients in states of critical condition. Being in the hospital and seeing patients in their beds, hearing the sounds of healthcare workers talking and machinesmaking noises, and even smelling the different scents of the floors led me to realize the magnitude of the position I would be in as a physician caring for the lives of other humans. The sight of some patients in extreme medical conditions, sometimes alone in their crisis, would move me profoundly, revealing to me not only how fragile human life is, but also how important excellent medical care is to ensure a full recovery and a return home to their families. In every one of the hospital rooms I saw that had a patient, there was also a story. There was a family they belonged to, achievements they were proud of, and people they greatly loved. They had relatives at home, hoping and praying that their loved oneswould be healed and be able to come home.

My experiences volunteering in the hospital have allowed me to see a glimpse of the larger stories of these patients, yet serve as a significant insight that reached the very core of my calling. As a physician, I would not only be caring for my own patients. I have a conviction that I am even more greatly caring for God’s patients.

As a person of many interests, I have been drawn to several different careers. I still do believe that these would lead to a happy life and one of great fulfillment. Yet, there is still a deep calling within me to be a man for others, especially for those who are sick and in need of compassion, leading me into a mission greater than myself. I see medicine fulfilling this desire not only through curing a bodily illness or treating a torn muscle, but also through living up to being a person of support and trust for my patients. It is through medicine that I have many opportunities to specialize in a particular role, where I can serve as a leader and learn from other professional colleagues simultaneously. And for me, it is through medicine that I would be able to put my own hands to good use.