Mrs. Zahedi’s seventh grade classroom was littered with science-related commodities. Bones and skulls filled the glass cabinets at the side of the room and posters of diverse plants and insects covered every inch of the walls; but I was focused on Mrs. Zahedi at the long lab table in the front of the room. In this rectangular room I would watch Mrs. Zahedi speed back and forth across the chalkboard, expounding on the details of the differences between RNA and DNA or the range of functions of a ball-and-socket joint. It was in this room that I became enthralled by medicine.

Years later, in my hometown of Chanhassen, Minnesota, I found my mother sprawled on the floor of my living room, legs propped up on an ottoman, eyes shut, and hands folded over her chest. My feet hastened to her side as my brain attempted to understand the situation laid in front of me. I spoke loudly but my voice waivered, “Mom?”, she opened her eyes slowly and the breath I hadn’t noticed I was holding rushed out of my lungs. She explained with visible difficulty that she was in the middle of a supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) attack, a condition I knew she suffered from but had never witnessed before. With my parents on spotty speaking terms the responsibility of transporting my mother to the hospital – like most other familial responsibilities – resided with me. Communication often fell through the cracks in my family, due mostly to my parent’s strained relationship as well as the broken bond between my younger brother and my father. Playing the role of the middleman was thankless, even though I served as the glue holding my family together.

My mother’s heart rate rapidly approached 200 bpm as we waited in the triage room, she suggested that the doctors might administer adenosine to slow her heart. I remember feeling apprehensive, frightened even, that I couldn’t understand what was going on inside my mother’s chest. As if he had peered into my thoughts, the physician attending to my mother came to my side and explained the results of her EKG test, soothing my nerves while pointing out that it was merely a temporary spike in her heart.

Motivated by watching my mother’s attack firsthand, I entered college as a biology student but what I knew I wanted was to continue studying Spanish. The Spanish language has been one of the few true constants in my life ever since I started kindergarten, teaching me the value of cultural connection and the endless possibilities that come with it. What I thought was a love for something that set me apart from other kids was really a love for connecting with other people. I joined Medlife, a national organization empowering a movement towards equal access to healthcare in Latin America, to integrate my two interests.

On separate occasions I traveled to Ecuador and Peru working side by side with physicians to serve rural communities of both countries and, more importantly, learn from the people of these communities. Using the language I had spent years of my life studying, along with the skills I had honed corresponding within my family, I communicated verbally and culturally between physicians, patients, and members of my service group.

I came back from my time in Ecuador and Peru more confident leading with my actions and words, something I had not placed enough personal value in before my travels. As vice president, and now president of the Knitting and Crochet club, I have employed methods of teaching that are outside the typical classroom and directed us towards a more service-oriented engagement with the community. This kind of collaboration between members of an extracurricular club uniting under a mutual goal is analogous to the type of teamwork I’ve witnessed working as an Operating Room Assistant.

In the operating room, what the patient doesn’t see is the consistent, closed-loop communication that cycles between doctors, nurses, surgical technologists, and everyone in between. During my first few shifts in the hospital, I was awed by the level of care and attention to detail that was given to each individual patient, but what sparked my curiosity more was how well such a large network of people was able to convey information specific to every patient.

Although the time I spend with them may be brief, it gives me enough opportunity to impact how a patient feels before their surgery. Whether that’s by holding their hand as the blood pressure cuff squeezes tight or rubbing their shoulder as the propofol travels through their IV, my personal role is to impart some reassurance as they fall asleep.

Communication is of the highest importance to me. The effort made by every moving part of an operating room is the type of efficiency and dedication to patient care I yearn for in my future as a physician. Medicine excites me because of its innate moral purpose of serving someone else before yourself, but medicine also motivates me. It pushes me to advocate for equitable rights, like I did in Ecuador and Peru; it drives me to understand the symptoms and treatments of my mother’s SVT and be able to readily explain them to others as her provider did for me. Medicine fosters my passion for learning and overcoming obstacles, expanding on the communication skills I have learned since I was a child in my disconnected household and the lessons I’ve encountered in my undergraduate studies.