I always thought that the path to becoming a physician was clear-cut. You do well in college, do some extracurriculars and do well on the MCAT. But what most people don’t talk about are those small moments of complete fear and vulnerability that you face on this path. For example, during one of my shadowing experiences, I observed a palliative care conversation between a man dying from metastatic prostate cancer and his urologist. I watched the physician speak gently to the patient and his wife, explaining that curative options had run out, and it was time to consider comfort care. The man held his wife’s hand and said, “I’m not afraid to die. I’m afraid to leave her alone.” I remember being frozen in my seat, unable to look away. It was so vividly raw, and, in that moment, I think I felt my soul fly out of my body. Somehow one day I was supposed to be that comforting doctor, helping a family navigate their wellbeing. I was scared, I wanted to leave the room, and my fear could have led me to believe that this was the wrong profession for me. Exams and quizzes make sense, you study the material and perform well. But conversations like these aren’t found in my textbooks. Yet still, I continued.

When I volunteered at Camp CAMP (a summer camp for those with disabilities) working 24/7 with campers with autism and cerebral palsy, I further began to understand the deeper meaning of care. P was assigned to me. He was nonverbal, yet I was determined to connect with him and understand his needs. Trivial acts like going for walks in nature allowed us to create a stronger relationship. In that shared silence, I learned that presence in the moment was powerful and important for our connection

My experience at Camp CAMP was impactful, but I needed to see how healing worked medicinally.

So, I joined a neurology team on rounds, observing how attendings and students interpreted MRIs and CTs to diagnose strokes and tumors. Even though I was witnessing the application of medicine, I could not avoid the deeply personal aspect of it. I distinctly remember crying when I watched a patient pass away and, in that moment, I couldn’t understand why. But now, I do. Watching someone die was to see a person’s mosaic of love and memories disappear.

I believe that being a physician allows the chance to extend that spark a little longer, even if just briefly.

I remember Mr. S, a patient who presented to the Urology office with kidney stones. Unfortunately, Mr. S was unable to afford the surgery to remove them, so he asked for medicine. The urologist gave him a prescription for pain, but he could not afford that either.

As I watched in silence, a wave of guilt washed over me. Who was I to be able to walk into Walgreen’s and pick up my prescription without batting an eye, while for others that same act was impossible? That situation changed the way I viewed empathy. It wasn’t about just caring about the outcome of a patient; it was seeing their inherent worth. I didn’t want to be someone watching and feeling bad, I wanted to be a kind of doctor that meets people where they are at, listens when it feels like the world is against them and offers compassion even when a cure is not possible.

It’s experiences like those that drove me to be more purposeful with my life. They gave me the opportunity to translate what I felt into action.

I've had the gift to serve others both as a calculus tutor and as a kinship chair for my fraternity where I organize vulnerable dialogue between my fraternity brothers so that they can be closer. Teaching others provided a sense of genuine satisfaction when I saw them succeed in their class and it also inspired me to do better in school.

Over time I developed an addiction to be better and do more for others. Though, out of all the experiences that have made me who I am today, none have shaped me more than when I fell short.

During my first year at Creighton, my academic performance was not always where I felt it should be. At the same time, without this experience, my subsequent trajectory may not have materialized as strongly as it did. So I have learned to never give up and to get back up every time. I get back up not out of obligation to continue, but out of a deep belief that I can do better. Recognizing my imperfections developed a sense of understanding that allowed me to recognize the beauty of growth. 

I no longer see becoming a physician as a destination and a list of checked boxes, but rather as a lifelong journey that requires equal parts tenacity and intellectual humility. Patients like Mr. S and countless others have shown me that being knowledgeable about science and a sense of diagnosis are only parts of a physician. I know now that compassion is vital to being a doctor and it helps me recognize that there is a kind and loving soul behind each diagnosis. Whether holding a hand, carrying out a procedure, or teaching a frightened family, I just want to be there for them. I want to be the kind of doctor who doesn’t just treat illness but helps people reclaim their best lives. Medicine stands at the center of my values. I’ve been shaped by these experiences, and I am grateful. While I know I have much to learn, I’m ready and eager to begin.