I have never been scared of needles. As a child, it was a quality I held with pride, fascinated with the way clinicians performed injections and blood draws. I grew to love needlework, imagining that I was suturing the skin of my stuffed animals in an operation. My Aunt nurtured my newfound hobby, and taught me embroidery. She’d take a look at my hoop, run a finger over the stitches and do some of her own, never missing an opportunity to say how much I reminded her of my grandmother who had passed away from ovarian cancer before I was born. I remember thinking about her as I sat next to my Aunt, as we waited for her name to be called by the receptionist. Looking over at my current project, she took the hoop from me to try her hand at adding a few stitches, but gave it back to me, citing the light in the waiting room. Neither of us spoke, but we both knew it was the chemotherapy that was affecting her vision. I developed a distaste for needles, watching her be poked over and over. What stood out, though, were the compassionate providers that were always available to offer guidance, endeavoring to treat her as a partner in her care journey. The way they made her feel seen, deepened my own resolve in pursuing medicine, helping individuals feel important, respected and visible in their most vulnerable moments.

I was able to be with my aunt through her illness, but for many, their medical team are the only support they have. I knew of this, but I didn’t see it firsthand until I took part in the Doctor’s in Italy fellowship program, where I shadowed physicians in the infectious disease ward of San Giovanni Hospital. During our rounds, we visited an elderly American gentleman who suffered from Alzheimer’s Dementia and had a resistant streptococcus infection. As such, we were instructed not to get close to him. The medical staff mentioned that they had struggled to communicate with him, and that he had no next of kin in Italy. When my peers and I greeted him in English, his demeanor changed instantly. Though he couldn't speak due to his oxygen mask, his eyes lit up. That moment showed me how a small action could directly impact a patient. Not only was the gentleman physically isolated due to his illness, he was also isolated by the language barrier that kept him from connecting with his caregivers. My peers and I were there to shadow, not provide any care, but this ended up being a strength for us. I spoke to him, not as a patient but as a person. A difference that changed his experience, as well as mine.

That moment showed me the passive power that providers have to make people feel seen. In that moment of vulnerability, patients need to feel visible, and small actions, like speaking to them, showing them that they are seen for their intrinsic dignity, can be all it takes to change their healthcare experience.

Watching vulnerable individuals grow in confidence given appropriate support was something I often witnessed through my experiences as a tutor. One semester, I worked with a student taking cell biology who had struggled in her previous science courses, who now doubted her ability to grasp the material. Supporting her as her tutor meant that I often was building up her self-confidence just as much as I reviewed the course material with her. During one of our weekly sessions, she asked if we could go over a concept from her lab course. As I was a teaching assistant for that course, I felt confident that I could help her understand that concept. I began teaching it the same way I had taught my lab students earlier that week. However, it soon became clear that this explanation wasn’t working for her. I tried two more times, with different methods, but to no avail. I could see her frustration growing, and suggested we take a break, before assuring her that we were going to work together to find an explanation that helped her understand the concept. This time, as we worked through the new problem, I could see her understanding shift as she began to work through the problem herself. Although that situation was challenging for me, I recognize how much harder that situation was for her. She had to learna difficult concept, be vulnerable with me, and overcome her self-doubt.

This reminded me of patients I’ve seen while shadowing. They are often in pain, anxious, and in need of compassionate support. Almost every time I shadowed, I watched the physician actively listen to and address the patient’s concerns, and witnessed the patient leave the office much more relaxed then when they entered. These experiences made me realize how both tutoring and medicine require empathy, patience, and problem solving to help students and patients feel supported.

Despite all of the compassionate care my Aunt received over the course of her cancer journey, she passed away last year. Months later, a blood test revealed my own genetic risk. Medicine can’t always offer a cure, but it offers hope, or at the very least, comfort and compassion. I’ve aspired to become a physician for a long time, but now I feel prepared to shoulder the responsibility that comes with guiding others through their health journeys, offering empathy and support in their most vulnerable moments.