Stepping onto campus my freshman year I had a plan to go to medical school and become a physician. To be completely honest, thought at that time I had no clear reason to pursue medicine. If someone asked my more naïve freshman self, I might have said, “I just want to help people.” I have grown so much in the past three years. I still want to help but, my perspective has matured through a discernment process.

Working as a medical assistant and shadowing in multiple specialties, I became enamored with what it means to be a physician. I witnessed the physicians in the clinic and operating room impact the lives of all the patients they encountered by building meaningful relationships and empowering each patient to have a role in their care with personalized treatments. As a medical assistant, I strived to follow their example, working to build rapport with patients, and enhance their healthcare experience. Through my simple interactions with patients, such as recording their vitals and assisting them to their respective rooms, I was fascinated by the diversity of attitudes and personalities.

They taught me lessons in patience and compassion and were unaware of their influence on my maturing resolve to become a physician. I hope to continue developing relationships with patients and build upon these lessons to assist others through the unique physician patient relationship.

These descriptions may seem to romanticize my experiences. However, cleaning a patient’s feces from the clinic floor was not fun. Needing to sit down my first time in the operating room was embarrassing.  Witnessing firsthand the stress and fatigue encountered by medical professionals was eye-opening. However, these challenges pale in comparison to the impact physicians have on the lives of their patients. The smile of a patient empowered to live a healthier life, the relief of a patient whose concerns have been addressed, and the comradery of the physicians following a successful day, further removed any shadow of doubt and further reinforced my desire to pursue medicine.

One nephrologist was especially influential during my discernment process. She cares for many Spanish-speaking patients as she spoke the language fluently. These patients often appeared uneasy and reserved when checking into the clinic, but upon hearing their primary language, each patient’s face would light up and appear more at ease.

After observing how this connection impacted her patients’ satisfaction in their care, I changed my perspective of what denotes quality healthcare. Following her example, I want to ensure people from all backgrounds feel welcome and are provided the highest quality of care. This experience served as a springboard for me, to pursue a Spanish minor, and go beyond learning to navigate the Spanish language.

I am making an effort to deepen my understanding of different aspects of the culture. Therefore, I joined a group on campus where I discussed with peers the American immigration system and its impacts on those who have immigrated or aspire to immigrate to the United States. I also volunteer as an assistant teacher, at the Latino Center of the Midlands in Omaha, Nebraska. It has been a great opportunity teaching Spanish-speaking individuals English. I hope they may be empowered by what they learn and have more opportunities to succeed in a society where English is the predominant language.

Although my role was to teach, my interactions with the students taught me more than I could have imagined. The determination of individuals of all ages seeking to learn English helped me to realize how fortunate I am to be able to receive care in my primary language. This is something I had previously recognized but had not fully internalized.

Seeking to gain experience and expand my perspective of medicine and the world, I applied and was accepted into the my university’s chapter of MEDLIFE, an organization determined to engage impoverished communities with the goals of increasing equitable access to healthcare and education. Volunteering in this group, I traveled to Ecuador to serve several rural communities in its mountainous region. I witnessed how culture molds the health and healthcare of communities. This was apparent when I worked with the site’s nutritionist and an obese child explained her unhealthy diet as a product of a lack of access to nutritional food and her culinary knowledge as her mother was working during most meals.

I learned the value of holistic care and witnessed that healthcare extends beyond just relieving symptoms. I appreciated the community’s focus on optimizing well-being and promoting personal autonomy for each patient. 

Through all these experiences, I found that despite facing adversity, my desire to become a physician has been continually reinforced. I hope to take what I have learned, along with my continuously developing worldview, and someday apply it to my own practice. I aspire to “help people” —all people— by partnering with them to have a personalized role in their healthcare, promoting their well-being, and providing the highest quality of holistic care.