When I was first tasked with writing a speech about why I should be Public Relations Vice President for my sorority, I drew a blank. My opponent had a strong background in social media and marketing while I was a pre-med biology major. How could I convince a room of 120 of my peers to vote for me? I decided to focus on the relationships I had formed and the trust I had built with each member. As my speech concluded, I felt confident that it was truly authentic to me. When the vote tally came back, I had won. While the link between being on the executive team of a sorority and deciding to go to medical school may not be immediately obvious, both stem from my skills in leadership and forming connections, which are essential qualities for a physician.

My first experience with patient care was in high school, as a Personal Care Assistant for Emma, a 12-year-old with a rare genetic condition. Emma is nonverbal, so we learned to communicate through gestures and facial expressions. Through my time with her, I grew to understand many aspects of her personality, including that she loves holidays. One summer, as the Fourth of July approached, I told her about the fireworks she’d see that weekend. She responded by making little fireworks with her hands. I began repeating the word until, to my amazement, she said, “Fireworks.” In all my time working with her, I had only heard her learn a few new words. This breakthrough was only possible because of the relationship and trust we had built, which allowed me to know what her needs were and how I could meet them.

From this point on I knew that building trust with patients would allow me to make progress I never thought possible. 

At the Good Neighbor Center, I tutor college students, many of whom are first-generation immigrants pursuing nursing degrees while raising children. I am one of the only tutors with a background in health sciences, which has allowed me to make a unique impact. One student, Arfasa, brings her six-month-old baby to our sessions. I noticed that she found medical vocabulary particularly challenging, so I began annotating her notes with plain-English definitions. Over time, she recognized the effort I was taking to adapt to her needs, and I saw her become more confident asking me for help when she didn’t understand a word. Since I started working with her, she has made huge strides in learning the material.

This experience has taught me the importance of tailoring patient care to meet patient’s needs, an essential component for physicians to provide the best care possible.

While I was a CNA, one of my patients was diagnosed with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a neurodegenerative disorder that causes patients to lose function in their extremities over time. Throughout the month he was on our floor, I made it a habit to check in with him, asking what book he was reading, if he wanted ice chips, or simply offering to chat. On his last day, he told me, “This has been such a great experience for me.” I was confused. Over the past few weeks, he had told me how frustrated he was that he couldn’t walk, use his phone, or play with his grandkids. At my puzzled look, he added, “Obviously this has been a difficult time, but I’ve really enjoyed meeting all the people here like you.”

That moment reinforced for me that while medicine can’t always heal, it can always comfort. I want to be the kind of doctor who shows up for patients and makes them feel supported even in times of uncertainty.

There have been several factors that have pushed me to become a doctor including my passion for science, my endless curiosity about the human body, and my drive to help others. What sets me apart as an aspiring physician, however, is my ability to connect with people.

As a medical scribe at Children’s Nebraska, I witnessed many difficult conversations between physicians and families. In one visit, a patient’s grandmother was hesitant about getting genetic testing for her granddaughter’s developmental delays. It was clear that she was afraid of what this might mean for her grandchild. The physician sat down across from her to explain how the testing worked and how it might help them identify the cause of her delays. Finally, the doctor shared her own genetic condition and how her diagnosis had improved her quality of life. There was a moment in this interaction when all the grandmother’s worries visibly melted away. The doctor had seamlessly noticed her reservations and determined what she needed to hear. The patient’s genetic test was sent that day, bringing her one step closer to understanding her developmental delay.

This moment revealed to me that the same trust I have built in relationships my entire life can and should extend to my patients. Building trust with others has helped me become an effective leader, personal care assistant, tutor, and CNA, and I know it will make me a great physician. 