As I stared at the wall in front of the nurse’s station, I noticed a blinking red light out of the corner of my eye. I froze. My jaw locked and I felt my hands start to sweat as I quickly realized what this meant. It was my first day of clinical hours required for my high school’s CNA program. I was expecting a passive few hours of shadowing a nurse on the Medical-Surgical Floor at Midlands Hospital, but after spending just a few minutes on the floor I quickly realized the expectations were much higher. I built up the courage to enter the room and speak to the patient, the first patient I ever spoke to. As I entered the room I was immediately met with the calming and joyful presence of an older woman sitting up with a soft smile on her face holding an empty cup. I noticed that she was asking for a refill of her water, but I did not grasp the extent of her needs right away. I came back with the cup of water, handed it to her, and confidently pivoted towards the door. Then I heard her soft voice again. She asked me to sit down and if she could tell me a story. After I did so, she thanked me for listening to her and shared with me that she did not have family to keep her company during her stay at the hospital. She told me that I made her feel heard and accepted, which was exactly what she needed at the time.

I have learned that personal interactions like these demonstrate the highest quality of care for others and I want to continue to show this care as a physician one day. While I enjoyed interacting with patients as a CNA, I was longing to be a part of a team of healthcare professionals in a different role.

Working as a Medical Scribe at the Children’s Hospital and Medical Center Gastroenterology Department, I have seen how physicians can connect with their patients. At the beginning of each appointment Dr. Choudhry spends time getting to personally know her patients, Dr. Huang always tells a joke before he leaves the room, and Dr. Kusek always remembers the names of all the family members at the appointment. One day as I followed Dr. Choudhry into a patient room, I immediately recognized the stress and anxiety coming from the patient’s mother. Her face was tense, and her hands were firmly gripped to a white, small journal. During the first few minutes of the appointment, the patient’s mother showed Dr. Choudhry the pages in her journal. As I curiously glanced over to the journal, I noticed pages of tables sketched in the journal, containing dates, times, and symptoms that her son was experiencing hourly. Dr. Choudhry continued to actively listen to the mother’s overwhelming concerns about the health of her son, while attending to every detail the mother provided. Recognizing the mother’s work, Dr. Choudhry actively listened with patience, provided comfort to a very concerned mother, and was able to effectively develop a treatment plan for the patient.

I want to become the type of physician who also embodies this care for their patients. 
This ability to actively listen with patience and care while problem-solving is something I’ve started to develop throughout my experience in research at Boys Town National Research Hospital.

When I first started working with children and adults in my research study, I didn’t think of my role as more than collecting data, but I’ve learned that this is just a small portion of my role. When participants come in for my study, I’m expected to uphold the professionalism and standard of care that health care professionals uphold. Throughout my experience I’ve learned to get to know participants personally while guiding them through the tasks of the study, using both problem-solving skills and data analysis.  This combination of tasks is very similar to how I’ve observed physicians navigate patient interactions: the physicians are trying to connect with patients on a personal level while actively listening and problem-solving to develop a treatment plan and explaining it to patients in a way they can understand it.

I plan to strengthen these skills that I’ve started to develop as a Research Assistant throughout my career as a physician.

My passion in connecting with patients on a personal level has grown since my first few patient interactions during my High School’s CNA program. I’ve seen that intentionally connecting with patients on a personal level is a main component of providing the highest quality of care for the whole person. These standards of care that I’ve observed from physicians during my experience as a Medical Scribe are qualities I’ve started to develop through interacting with research participants. I strive to be a physician that is an active listener, personable, an effective communicator, and a problem-solver.