At the end of the summer of 2024, after my family and I had just finished a long day of fishing, I was recounting the day with my older brother. Lane said, “Wow, I feel so happy right now!” I did my best to prolong his happiness because if anyone deserves it, it is him. 3 years ago, my brother was diagnosed with schizophrenia, along with depression and anxiety. It has been a long and hard 3 years living with the brutal disease, but my brother has made remarkable improvements. Seeing my brother’s gradual improvement in his ability to do tedious things like socializing, staying out on the boat fishing for 6 hours straight like we used to, and even enrolling in postsecondary education has made me realize what I want. I want to help people the way that the healthcare team helped my brother, Lane.
Lane is 18 months older than me, so he was a big role model for our entire childhood. We never would have guessed how much someone could change in 8 months until he went to college in 2020. He came back from his second semester disinterested in many of his previous passions, more introverted, and more anxious, and decided against returning to school. At this time, I was going into my senior year of high school and was beginning to consider colleges, majors, and careers. Throughout the school year, Lane had not made progress on returning to school, nor had he obtained a job, so my family and I started to get worried and confused. His sleep habits worsened, his social life declined, and he began saying odd things and speculating about others more. One February night at about 3:00 am, we all woke up to loud clanging and banging from our kitchen, and upon exploration, we found him incredibly aggravated and confused. It wasn’t the first time that this had happened, but this was a particularly severe instance, so he was involuntarily admitted to the behavioral health hospital in Sioux Falls. Over the next 10 days, I visited him daily and began to understand how much he needed help. I am forever grateful for the healthcare team that didn’t just help him get back on his feet but helped our whole family. The magic of medicine brought back a glimpse of my older brother, and that’s why the field has so enamored me.

Because my shared experiences with my brother showed me firsthand how mental illness could lead to poverty, homelessness, and poor academic outcomes, I became passionate about tackling these issues within my communities through volunteering. In my hometown of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, I dedicated an entire summer to volunteering in my community. I volunteered at Feeding South Dakota, Sanford Children’s Hospital, and Avera Health this summer. Of all my volunteering experiences, seeing the same 11-month-old baby girl at the Sanford Children’s Hospital week after week was the most impactful for me. I knew little of her situation but knew I could contribute to a critical stepping stone in her care. My role in her multiple-week stay at the hospital was to keep her occupied and give her quality attention, which simultaneously alleviated some stress of the nursing and child life staff.

Although I returned to school before she got discharged, I found fulfillment in knowing that I played a role in improving her quality of care and life. Through this experience, I fully understood the Jesuit tenet of cura personalis–care for the whole person–because I had the opportunity to care for patients’ social and emotional needs, which I believe to be the deepest and most fundamental.

My mentor, Dr. Eric Watson, MD, is a lower-extremity specialized orthopedic surgeon in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Of all of Dr. Watson’s sayings, “it’s every other step,” meaning that having an injury of the foot can have a significant impact on one’s life, stuck with me the most. It was in this saying that I saw cura personalis once again. From what I’ve seen, seemingly minor ailments can have compounding effects on a patient’s quality of life, so treating minor ailments can have transformative impacts as well. I watched Dr. Watson operate on broken fibulas and reattach torn ligaments to treat both his patients’ physical and emotional ailments

I was reminded of my brother’s healthcare team: they helped my brother recover physically, and they helped our family recover emotionally. Through observing Dr. Watson, I know I can use cura personalis as a physician to serve my community in every way possible.

After giving attention to a little girl who needed it, seeing Dr. Watson go the extra mile to befriend and care for his patients, and receiving additional help from the healthcare team who cared for my brother and our family, I knew that I wanted to be a physician to continue and extend the same care and love for others. I strive to be a doctor because I strive to give people the opportunity to live their lives to the fullest. I want to be a friend to my patients, and to give a 22-year-old the ability to go fishing for a full day and travel with his family. My Jesuit education at Creighton University has taught me that reflection and discernment are crucial steps in the staircase to personal success. Throughout my years of service, shadowing, academic commitment, and familial experiences, my reflection has led me to medicine time and time again.