“You aren’t listening to me!” I sobbed as my mom tried to suppress a smile. I had made the rookie mistake of getting in between my yellow lab and her tennis ball, a costly error. After getting knocked off my feet, I ran to my mom for comfort, only to be met with stifled laughter. In that moment, what hurt most wasn’t the fall, it was feeling like no one was listening. Of course, after she collected herself, my mom tended to my battle wounds, but the idea of really listening to someone, of being present, became a core value that gradually guided me towards medicine.

As a peer mentor in the Omaha Public Schools district, I worked with many kids who, like my 8-year old self, were searching for someone to sit with them and just listen. Through each spirited debate about how Fortnite was so much better than Lego Star Wars (to which I still vehemently disagree), I found myself forming a bond with my assigned first graders. In trying to explain the intricacies of Clifford to a student learning English, or reading the next Magic Tree House, I watched my students not only grasp the words, but begin to love them. Though my role was technically only to help with reading, the students often took initiative, connecting their novels to video games and home life. By pouring out their hobbies, fears, and interests, my students taught me kindness, creativity, and optimism, simply because I was willing to be present and engage.

After each day with my students, I loved to recall the pride I saw in their eyes as they conquered each novel. And, while working with students ignited my love for mentorship, I also found myself increasingly drawn to science, particularly chemistry.

To explore this interest, I became a chemistry TA. I distinctly remember sitting with one of my students while walking through a difficult electrochemistry question. After working for around 30 minutes, she became increasingly anxious. Seeing this, I said “Don’t worry, when I was in this class this material gave me a lot of trouble too.” Her startled expression told me she had lost confidence in my ability to be a lifeline, so I quickly doubled down and reassured her: “Let's just try and see where we end up.” We finished right on time. Next week, she proudly showed the “Awesome!” sticker on her paper, featuring a cat with sunglasses, and stated that it would be proudly displayed on her bulletin board. That sticker, silly as it was, symbolized the determination and perseverance of both of us. It was truly a tangible realization of the effort we had both put in.

My time as a TA taught me that scientific progress is rarely a solo effort. Each interpretation of spectral data and each failed yield demanded the same thoughtful, collective, and science-based problem-solving I admired. But, after considering careers in teaching and research, I realized I was drawn to the collaborative and evidence-driven care that medicine offers.

I then trained for, and accepted, a position as an ER Technician, devoting the next year of my life there. Working in the ER not only fueled my curiosity to learn more about the field of medicine, but it also exposed me to a patient population rich in diversity, with stories and perspectives I’d never considered.

Through each mistake I made, through each patient I triaged, and through each EMS report I took, I was able to slowly understand that medicine isn’t just a science, it's a people's profession, one where you have to juggle concerns, struggles and feelings.

I especially remember a ten-year-old boy in respiratory distress who arrived just weeks into my job. When he arrived, the beeping monitors and chaos of the ER seemed to fade, replaced by his hacking coughs and soft whimpers. I felt helpless, shaken by the realization that I couldn't fix his pain instantly. As I watched his eyes dart around the room, searching for relief, I watched as the provider began not by barking orders or by interrogating the family, but by holding the boy's hand.

Whether they were offering comfort or assessing for cyanosis, that simple act brought a visible calm to the room.

In that moment, I knew this was the career path for me.

This moment in the ER, and so many others, showed me that being a physician means being human in the face of uncertainty. It means showing up, not just with knowledge, but with presence.

Just like I had once longed to be seen and heard, I now want to be the physician who brings that same presence and attentiveness to others. And, while every member of the healthcare team plays a vital role, I came to understand that what drew me to the role of a physician was the ability to both lead and listen. I'm drawn to the duty of being ultimately responsible for each diagnosis, treatment decision, and the direction of care, while also still being able to form meaningful relationships with patients. In every shift I work and every patient I meet, I want to bring compassion, attentiveness, and determination. I am confident that medical school will equip me with the tools needed to serve others with both compassion and scientific rigor, ultimately enabling me to embody the attentive presence that has inspired my journey from childhood to the ER bedside.