Growing up there was always a greater expectation that I show a sense of responsibility and leadership. My brother, Eric, has cerebral palsy and was diagnosed at the age of three. In my later years of elementary school I started to understand the attributes that made Eric “different”. While I did not fully understand the situation, I was able to see that he would need extra support and love in his life. In middle school I made the decision to step up and offer my family extra support. Whether that be helping to prepare meals for my brother or assisting him with showers, I took on extra responsibility to ensure that Eric was cared for and looked after. These experiences often left me growing up faster than my peers. I would spend less time playing games with neighborhood kids so that I could contribute to my family by tending to my brother. Especially given my parents are older individuals, it was important that I lighten their load of responsibilities by being a caretaker for my brother. Throughout high school I prioritized time with my brother and would always ensure that he would be given extra attention and viewed equally by others in all aspects of his daily life.
I learned from this experience that Eric is a person who deserves what everyone else has, and just because he is different doesn’t mean he doesn’t deserve the same quality of life as other people.

I was able to see this quality of care when I shadowed a general surgeon my freshman year in a clinical setting. This experience showed me the application of the same skills that I learned from caring for my brother, but in a different light. I watched Dr. Aguilar describe a hernia to a patient who did not speak English. He did this by using a marble in a glove and describing it as essentially a hole that protrudes out. Listening and visualizing this different and unique form of communication to advocate with the patient to ensure that they fully understood the situation left me in awe.

I respect Dr. Aguilar for taking the extra step to assess the situation and use the best means possible to work with the patient to achieve complete understanding. He brought to life everything that I had learned from living with my brother and inspired me to apply these experiences in the future.

As I progressed through college, I wanted to use everything I had learned from working with Eric and shadowing to share my skills with other people. I embarked on three medical service trips to various countries with the non-profit MEDLIFE to offer free and continued medical attention to rural communities that lack access to healthcare. I was president of MEDLIFE  my junior year, and I led 40 students on a trip to Ecuador. Over the eight months of planning for the trip, I wanted to ensure that all the participants were educated and culturally aware of the environment we were entering. I used meetings as teaching moments to inform people of how to be a proper advocate for individuals that we would be assisting. We learned about the difference between dependency and empowerment, holistically communicating with verbal and non-verbal signals, and actively listening to the community’s needs. MEDLIFE’s mission is to meet people where they are at in life and empower them towards change rather than creating dependency; similarly, when we are working with my brother, my family and I help him but we also create teaching moments so he can do more things on his own. By teaching him new things, he becomes more independent.

I learned from Eric the importance of attending to people whom our society can overlook and in MEDLIFE the importance of community support for people in all stages of life, leading me to an interest in end-of-life care in the hospice setting.

In this role, I visit hospice patients to promote the dignity of life. Recently, I was assigned a patient who was placed at a government-funded facility.  From experiencing homelessness to being separated from his mother at a young age, he felt comfortable sharing his stories with me, and I cherished them during each visit. He showed me the importance of providing care by putting the person first instead of focusing on a disease and its burden on life.

Through this relationship with my patient, I was able to be present and actively listen to his past, express empathy and compassion, and provide emotional and social support so that he could feel loved and recognized as a worthy human being.

The best doctors take responsibility for their patients, treat everyone equally, are fully present, and communicate well. My experiences with Eric, MEDLIFE, hospice, and shadowing prove that I am capable of embodying these characteristics.

At the same time, I want to keep learning by applying observations and lessons from my life to tackle challenging situations in my future field of medicine. As a doctor, I hope to share these valuable lessons of care with others in the form of interactions with patients and colleagues. I am eager to further my experiences and grow as an individual, driven by awareness, advocacy, compassion, and empathy.