I have seen the importance of communication in connecting with others. Through shadowing, service, and traveling abroad, I have formed relationships with many people different from me by working to understand them. This is why I want to be a physician: I want to be someone who shows others how to create a welcoming environment for all patients, allowing relationships to be formed. After many experiences, I know that communication and non-verbal cues are skills that would allow me to be someone all patients can trust to walk with them through all their highs and lows, working with them to solve their problems.

One interaction of particular importance to me happened when I was shadowing Dr.Campbell, a primary care physician. As a visit with “John” progressed, I noticed the concern on his face grow. Dr.Campbell soon paused the conversation and asked if what they were discussing was not the solution he wanted. After John admitted that he was not comfortable with the medication Dr.Campbell was suggesting, and another solution was found, I saw relief flood John’s face. Dr.Campbell adjusted to meet the needs of the patient and respect his wishes. By picking up on John’s non-verbal cues, Dr.Campbell understood and communicated with the patient, allowing for the most effective interaction and relationship.

As a physician, I will carry with me the ability to adapt and respond quickly to the information I gather from non-verbal cues. This way, I can treat the patient effectively and respectfully, leading the way as I use my wide breadth of knowledge to find many possible answers to their problem.

Traveling to the Dominican Republic allowed me to experience human connection with people different from me. In a clinic in Carrizal, my job was to accompany patients moving through the clinic. One couple I worked with was pregnant. As soon as they arrived, I could see the worry lines in their faces, concern over their soon-to-be child clear. I held an iPad for the couple to see as the physician did an ultrasound. As the couple’s worry lines disappeared and smiles appeared when they saw their child, I saw the importance of small moments. As I walked them out, they both hugged and thanked me profusely before leaving. It was then that I realized the importance of just being there for people, my supportive presence in that short ultrasound mattered more than I could’ve imagined.

As a physician, I want to ensure that I don’t lose focus on the small things, such as the importance of my presence. By doing so, I know I can be a physician who gives each patient what they need, ensuring that they all feel like they have a leader who they trust and feel welcomed with.

Volunteering at Siena Francis House has taught me the importance of controlling my own non-verbal cues. At Siena Francis House, a homeless shelter in Omaha, I work with other Creighton students to serve dinner and play bingo with guests. One day during dinner, “Anthony” called me over and started telling me about something that happened that day. I couldn’t follow along with all of the details, as he didn’t provide much context. However, I kept smiling, nodding, and making eye contact, clearly showing that I was listening. By controlling my facial expressions, I knew that I could display a kind and understanding demeanor that would make him feel comfortable enough to keep talking and say what he needed. When he was done sharing his story, he thanked me, explaining that he felt so much better and was very grateful to me for listening to him. Being someone that people feel they can be loved and accepted by as their true selves allows for connections with people different from us.

This is why I want to be a physician: to be a role model, showing others how to hold themselves in a way that ensures a welcoming and loving environment in every patient interaction. This way, patients open up as their true selves. By showing each patient that they deserve to be loved, accepted, and heard, trust will be built between me, my team, and patients, allowing us to work together to find the best solution for the patient.

Through shadowing, working in a clinic in the Dominican Republic, and service, I have seen the importance of human connection. I want to be a physician because connecting with others different from me is important. By showing others how to create a welcoming environment, my patients will feel accepted as they are, allowing me to work in the most effective way to find the answer they need. As a physician, I hope to work with underserved populations to improve their health and therefore their lives. I know that by being someone patients can trust, I can use my wide breadth of knowledge to solve their complicated problems, making a difference in the lives of people who need it most.