It’s in your genes.
Nature vs. Nurture, a debate that has shaped centuries of scholarly discourse regarding the extent of influence that genetics and the environment play in human development, and a source of conflict within me. The inescapable impact of genetics in my life provided a harsh reminder of how little control I felt we had in life.
My father’s battle with alcoholism felt like a tragic inevitability. Despite a long family history of alcohol use disorder, my father was persistent in his belief he could outrun the same fate. Although my understanding of what addiction meant at six years old was menial, I’ll never forget when my dad’s denial of his problem turned into acceptance; when beer was no longer hidden in coffee mugs, when drinking in the morning sounded much better than at night, and surviving an overdose no longer felt like a miracle but an invitation to try again.
At the same time, I watched my mother, the epitome of discipline and healthy living, do everything ‘right.’ As an internal medicine physician, she practiced what she preached. Our household was free of artificial dyes and cholesterol-packed foods, and even after long shifts at the hospital, she never missed a pilates class. So when she called during my sophomore year of college to tell me she had been diagnosed with breast cancer, I laughed—not out of disbelief, but because the irony was too cruel. A genetic screening revealed a variant BRCA gene, present from birth, silently directed her fate all along.
When I told people I wanted to be a doctor when I grew up, without missing a beat they would respond, it’s in your genes. They would support this using my mother’s profession, my great-grandfather’s founding of a gynecology hospital in our small town of Goa in India, and even from stereotypes based on my South Asian heritage. However, what once felt like affirmation slowly became resentment. What else was in my genes? Breast cancer? Addiction? Is fate truly so predetermined?

My research experience with Dr. Scott helped me shift this narrative. As part of data collection and analysis, I watched over 200 videos of individuals with Cerebral Palsy, a neurological condition affecting movement caused by abnormal development or damage in parts of the brain typically during fetal development, undergo physical therapy. I became invested in watching participants meet physical milestones; walking in a straight line, bending a knee, reaching a new personal best score. I wasn’t the one providing the treatment, yet I felt invested in their victories. I can’t even count the number of times I’ve had to rewatch videos, getting carried away in my personal celebration for them, letting out a little ‘woop’ in my research lab on accident.

It was a pivotal moment in my realization that I didn’t want to be a bystander, but rather, the one guiding others towards progress.

Shadowing Dr. Miranda Anderson in outpatient addiction medicine further transformed my understanding of not only health, but what being a physician means. I had viewed addiction as final; the end of my father’s career, his health, and ultimately our relationship. My shadowing experience with her changed my perspective on what I once thought was a life sentence to something that could be managed and overcome.

During my week with her, she taught me that addiction was just one chapter in a patient’s story, one that could be rewritten. I witnessed the respect between physician and patient, the mutual trust, and the unwavering belief her patients had in her ability to help them recover.

Witnessing my mother’s battle with cancer was the nail in the coffin, solidifying my calling to medicine. While her diagnosis was a stark reminder of the power that genetics and fate can hold over our lives, the treatment and care she received from medical staff drove me to want to help others reclaim control over theirs. Between my sophomore and junior years of college, I committed myself fully to supporting her recovery. “It’s in your genes to be a caretaker” she would joke, trying to lighten the mood as I helped her shower and dress. I struggled to find comfort in her words. She was undergoing chemo, and I was folding laundry. During her double mastectomy, I waited anxiously outside the operating room, clinging to every update from the surgical team, stopping myself more than once from asking if they could administer me the anesthesia instead.

When a nurse practitioner stepped away from her duties to check on me, I broke down. “Isn’t it awful,” I sobbed, my words catching in my throat, “that someone can do everything right and still get cancer?” She held me and answered softly, “That’s why we’re here.”

These experiences made me realize that while we may not get to choose the genes we inherit or the other conditions we may face, we do get to choose how we respond - with compassion and care that transcends our biology. So when people ask me why I want to become a doctor, I still say It’s in my genes - not just because of inheritance, but because I’ve witnessed how genetics can shape lives, and want to provide the care that allows people to redefine theirs.