Beginning with a single line, I watched as my drawing slowly came to life, each deliberate stroke adding depth and texture until the image emerged. A portrait that was impossible to appreciate up close; however, vibrant and full of life when viewed from afar. This process of creating taught me to value the importance of precision, patience, and perspective. In my eyes, medicine mirrors this effect, whether that be a surgeon’s meticulous and precise movements to restore movement to a compromised joint, or the careful crafting of words to deliver difficult news. I have come to see that medicine demands this same intentionality and ability to see the larger picture.   My interest in the artistry of medicine first began when I shadowed an orthopedic surgeon. While observing the surgeon's hands navigating the complexities of the human body, I was able to see the parallels between their work and childhood memories of my father. As a child, I remember observing my father in his makeshift garage workshop, carefully creating something new and functional utilizing saws, chisels, drills, and routers. I was enamored. In the operating room, I saw a similar transformation with tools wielded precisely to restore movement to an immobilized knee. Here, I came to understand medicine as both a science and an art, a discipline that requires technical skill and creativity and vision. 

Artistry, however, is not merely restricted to the hands of a physician, it lives in the way that physicians interact and communicate with patients. A physician must carefully shape the way in which they communicate to ensure complex concepts and difficult discussions are tailored to a patient’s needs. I came to appreciate the art of communication while studying abroad. While in the Dominican Republic, I discovered new ways to communicate and connect, whether through a gesture, tone, or even presence. I learned to build trust when language alone fell short.   The first thing that I created while staying with my host mom in the rural town of Corocito was a culmination of savory aromas: fresh garlic, oil, tangy vinegar, and chicken. My host mother, “Maria,” taught not with strict measurements, but rather by feel and taste, trusting what had been passed down generationally. That morning, I learned how to cook, but also how to navigate and connect with my host mother, to see beyond my limited understanding of Spanish. Following motions, gestures, and the few words I understood, we created a meal. Medicine requires this same attention to subtle details when approaching conversations with patients. Further, there is a certain intention that must be utilized when interacting with patients; every word, gesture, and interaction should be purposeful.

Through my work as a nursing assistant I explored these purposeful patient interactions. Working within the med/surg unit of a hospital provided a unique experience in patient communication, as patients were constantly admitted and discharged. With a constant flow of new patients, it was essential that I formed meaningful connections and established trust with patients in a short amount of time. Often, the care that nursing assistants provide occurs at a time of high vulnerability for patients. Because of this, it is essential that trust and rapport are built from the first interaction. I immediately learned that each patient required a different approach to building trust; while some patients loved to talk, others were more reserved and required a more delicate approach to creating connection.   Early in my position, I was assigned a patient, “Hope”, who was being treated for a lower GI bleed. Eager to prove myself, I got to work aiding, walking, taking vitals, and cleaning. As the day progressed, Hope's disposition shifted, eventually prompting me to leave her room as she requested to speak to the nurse. After conversing with Hope, the nurse notified me that while amid completing all of my tasks, I had failed to connect with Hope on a personal level. I returned to Hope's room to apologize and took the time to listen to her fears about recovery and how her health might affect her family.

This was a turning point in my mindset as a nursing assistant. What I thought was necessary for my position, I was neglecting a vital part of my role. As a drawing will fail to come together when not afforded the attention it deserves in all areas, so will medicine. Medicine requires that patients be cared for in a holistic manner, seeing care through all lenses.

My experiences creating a meal with my host mother, conversing with Hope, and admiring the restoration of a knee have taught me that medicine, like art, requires precision and vision. Just as a drawing emerges through a series of thoughtfully placed strokes, medicine is effectively practiced through precise, purposeful actions, actions that are carefully crafted for each patient. While I have made many parallels through the work I have completed in the studio to medicine, I am ready for the rigorous training and mentorship that medical school can provide. I look forward to this essential next step in my path to integrating the intention and creativity that I have learned in the studio and cultivating it into my future as a physician.