Whether it's the discomfort of an examination gown or the distress of receiving bad news, a physician’s role is not just to treat illness but to honor and respect the vulnerability in moments of patient care. In my own journey, I have witnessed, experienced, and learned to honor those moments. It has become a driving force in every path I choose to take, and in my decision to pursue a career as a physician.

While shadowing an oncologist, I met a patient who was about to undergo her final round of chemotherapy. She was excited and relieved, eager to be done with the grueling treatment and hopeful to feel like herself again. It was clear that, over the six months of treatment, she and the doctor had built a strong relationship, as she proudly mentioned buying new makeup for Christmas. This moment stood out to me for several reasons. It not only highlighted the physical toll of her illness but also the profound emotional impact. It was clear that the physician had been a source of support throughout the chemotherapy process, which was reflected in their connection. Small, purely human joys like wearing makeup had been taken away from her by cancer, and she was in the process of reclaiming them. Thanks to the trusting relationship between the physician and the patient, she was able to embrace that joy once again and share it openly with the doctor.

During a healthcare volunteer trip to Cusco, Peru, one patient stood out as particularly nervous about coming to the OB-GYN station at our mobile clinic. As the physician asked questions about her medical history, such as how many abortions she’d had and whether she was sexually active, the patient continually scanned the room, visibly uncomfortable, and avoided making eye contact with anyone. Despite this, the physician maintained a calm and reassuring tone, responding to the patient’s concerns with care and compassion. Slowly, as the appointment went on, the patient became more at ease, even smiling at the physician as she shared more details about her health history than she had at the start. I realized that the patient’s newfound openness was due to the physician’s ability to approach her vulnerability with respect and patience, building trust in just a two-minute conversation. With trust in place, the physician was able to perform a pap smear, which the patient had never received before. The doctor recognized a moment of vulnerability and handled it with grace, ultimately providing the best care she could in that delicate moment.

I experienced vulnerability myself when I went to the emergency department for chest pain and was diagnosed with a spontaneous pneumothorax, likely from a flight two days prior. I was anxious as the doctor explained I would need a chest tube. The next hour blurred with medical staff coming in and out, preparing me for the procedure. I was terrified, waiting for my parents to arrive. One resident, however, stayed with me, talking about her career and easing my nerves. When it was time for the chest tube, instead of observing the procedure, she stood by my side and held my hand. In that moment of vulnerability, surrounded by medical students and residents, her compassion made all the difference. She cared for me, not just my lung, and her presence helped me face something I never thought I’d have to.

As an upperclassman mentor at Creighton, I’ve guided freshmen through the highs and lows of their first year. One student, struggling with the aftermath of poor decisions during a night of drinking, confided in me, worried that her actions would haunt her. I could hear the tremor in her voice and recognized the courage it took to ask for help. At that moment, I reassured her. I reminded her that she wasn’t alone and that our mistakes don’t define us. These vulnerable moments with first-year students are the most rewarding parts of my role, and I feel honored to be someone they trust in times like these.

I am inspired to take my passion for medicine, my passion for people, and my passion for vulnerability to pursue a career I believe is rooted in vulnerable moments like these. I have learned to recognize moments of vulnerability between a patient and a physician. Through my own experiences, I have learned that honoring this vulnerability is essential to making connections as humans and to providing effective care. I have encountered physicians who know this to be central to their work, and I am inspired to do the same.