At a local homeless shelter in Omaha, a man came up to me in line and asked for another serving of food, which I wasn’t allowed to grant him. The bad day he was having was visible on his face. He walked away, clearly distressed, and I stepped out of the serving line to ask the management if I could give him a few extra cups of applesauce. Receiving approval, I ran out into the dining hall, excited to help the man. I apologized for my inability to get him another tray, and with pride, I asked him if he’d like the applesauces. When he looked me in the eyes and asked me for a gun that he could “shoot himself in the head with,” I froze. I apologized and walked away.
		I was speechless when he responded the way he did. At first, I thought my shock was related to the passion I’d found for firearm injury prevention due to my research position. My job is to extract court orders placed on individuals who were at risk of homicide or suicide with a firearm. I’d been filing through court orders all summer, becoming increasingly uneasy about improper firearm usage in my communities. 
However, the experience in the homeless shelter reminded me of an interaction I had in the hospital, transporting a patient to his oncology treatment. When I asked him about how his day was, he said “How do you think man? I’m going to die.” I responded in the same way, with an apology followed by silence. 
When I was able to reflect on these instances, I was finally able to put into words why I was doing what I was doing, and why I was devoting my education to practicing medicine. My work experiences until that point were revolved around efficiency: getting a patient down to his CT scan as soon as possible, serving food quickly so tempers don’t flare, rummaging through court orders with speed for my research team.  That night, the man in the shelter could have become another gun violence statistic that I was would have quickly read through. While the time management, communication, and decision-making skills are ones that I value deeply, I began to realize that I wasn’t going slow enough to make connections with those I was working for. I told myself that I’d start working on it, because I began pursuing medical school knowing that medicine offers the rare opportunity to efficiently stitch together knowledge while also being completely present for individuals in those vulnerable, shocking moments.

While I was always so interested in medical procedures, I began watching the physicians that I shadowed from this new perspective: I wanted to see how to have hard conversations in the world of medicine. I was fortunate enough to observe the Maternal and Fetal Medicine team at Children’s Hospital in Denver. Their chemistry and skill in the operating room was nothing short of jaw dropping,

but I realized that the real reason for their prestige was their ability to connect with the patient on a personal level and work with them on a plan towards a positive health outcome.

Less than ten minutes after watching fetal surgery, I found myself in the corner of an ultrasound room with a new patient, in complete disbelief of what I was seeing on the screens. The physician I was shadowing explained to a pregnant mother that her baby’s abdominal wall had developed incorrectly and that the baby’s internal organs were growing outside of its body. The physician answered the mother’s questions in a slow, caring way that made it easy to see that his love for his work stemmed from the patience required to safely navigate each medical plan. There were moments of silence in which he felt those emotions alongside her. He explained softly that they would meet with every member of team to discuss the mother’s options and potential next steps. He perfectly understood that he had to add “Urgent! Slow down and be present!” to his ever-long to do list for the day.

Throughout my junior year, I got to practice slowing down in vulnerable moments through a weekly service opportunity at an elementary school in Omaha. While most days were spent tutoring challenged learners, two sunny sessions were spent out on the field, where I got the opportunity to teach children how to ride bikes. Immediately, I was excited to help. As someone who raced mountain bikes throughout high school, I felt like I had the opportunity to share my love for riding with students who weren’t as fortunate as I was to have a bike at home. I began working with an extremely shy fourth grader. She spoke very few words to me but through passionate nods, showed that she was eager to learn to ride. She expressed the frustration that comes with learning something new at such a young age, but without words, just a tilted chin and deep breaths. Over the course of two separate Wednesdays, I tried every trick I knew to get her up and pedaling. Her lack of verbal communication was challenging to maneuver, especially because it was clear that she cared. There were moments where we just sat in the grass de-stressing, looking at the bike and resting. I used these opportunities to tell her how worth it learning to ride would be. I showed her pictures of myself, riding at her age as well as racing in high school. As our time together was ending on that second Wednesday, she pushed onto the pedals and into the saddle, and rapidly spun her legs—successful. I didn’t expect her to say anything, and she didn’t, but as our service group pulled away from the elementary school, I could still see her smile from across the campus.

This year, I’ve focused on starting my long journey towards being the most empathetic student and community member I can be, all while chasing my love for learning and working as hard as possible. I understand that I’ll be facing challenges that I could have never dreamed of. There are plenty of “speechless” moments to still experience, but if I am lucky enough to continue pursuing medicine, I know I will be doing so with a full head of steam, while reminding myself to flip the switch, slow down, and care for the individual that is in front of me.